hey this is presto Walker people always
email me puzzles from social media and
they love it when I make videos about
these puzzles because it helps them
understand how to solve them and it
helps build their confidence in math
this puzzle can be described as follows
we have a three-digit number represented
by a blue circle followed by a gray
circle followed by a red circle this
three-digit number is added together
three times to produce another
three-digit number represented by three
red circles the challenge is to solve
for each color of each circle it's not
stated in the problem that was
distributed you can assume each color
represents a different digit can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for a solution so how can we solve
this problem there are many different
ways you can go I'm just going to
explain the way that I solved it so
first I converted this into an algebraic
problem I said the blue circle is
represented by a that gray circle is
represented by B and the red circle is
represented by C so we have the problem
ABC being added together three times to
produce the result of CCC now how can we
solve this well let's take a look at the
ones column what's the possible range
that we could have well the smallest
value for C is zero and that would
result in zero the largest value for C
is nine and that would result in 27 so
the result of this column has to be
between zero and 27 therefore three
times C will either be equal to C as a
one digit number or it'll be a two digit
that's between ten and twenty three C is
equal to 10 plus C or it'll be between
20 and 27 3 C is equal to 20 plus C
these are the three possible cases to
consider let's consider each one if 3 C
is equal to C that means C is equal to 0
but then the final result is 0 0 0 which
means a and B would also have to be 0
and this is not possible since each
letter represents a different digit so
we cannot have C being equal to 0 let's
consider the third case that 3 C is
equal to 20 plus C in that case we can
solve C is equal to 10 but this is not
possible since each letter has to be
digit between 0 & 9
so that leaves the final possibility
that 3 C is equal to 10 plus C we can
solve this to get that C is equal to 5
therefore the final result is 5 5 5 and
we've essentially solved the problem
there's just one more step we need to
take we have the same number being added
together three times to equal 555 3
times some number is equal to 555 that
means if we take 555 and divided by 3 we
get ABC 555 divided by 3 is equal to 185
so that must equal ABC so a must be
equal to 1 and B must be equal to 8 and
this in fact works out so now we'll just
go back to our original problem and this
is the answer the blue circle is equal
to 1 the gray circle is equal to 8 and
the red circle is equal to 5 did you
figure it out thanks for watching this
video i post math videos that can be
watched for free with topics from people
around the world because math is
universal you can help the cause by
subscribing for free to get
newest videos you can also watch and
share all of mine your decisions videos
which will help more people discover the
channel you can also email me a map or
puzzle topic at presh at mind your
decisions comm if you like this video
you can also check out my books which
are linked in the video description and
if you so choose to support that math is
universal you can support me on patreon
thanks for watching and thanks for your
support